Wireless communications is by any measure the fastest growing segment of the communications industry As
such it has captured the attention of the media and the imagination of the public Cellular systems have experienced exponential growth over the last decade and there are currently around two billion users worldwide Indeed 
cellular phones have become a critical business tool and part of everyday life in most developed countries and
are rapidly supplanting antiquated wireline systems in many developing countries In addition wireless local area
networks currently supplement or replace wired networks in many homes, businesses, and campuses. Many new
applications, including wireless sensor networks, automated highways and factories, smart homes and appliances,
and remote telemedicine, are emerging from research ideas to concrete systems. The explosive growth of wireless systems coupled with the proliferation of laptop and palmtop computers indicate a bright future for wireless
networks, both as stand-alone systems and as part of the larger networking infrastructure. However, many technical challenges remain in designing robust wireless networks that deliver the performance necessary to support
emerging applications. In this introductory chapter we will briefly review the history of wireless networks, from
the smoke signals of the pre-industrial age to the cellular, satellite, and other wireless networks of today. We
then discuss the wireless vision in more detail, including the technical challenges that must be overcome to make
this vision a reality. We describe current wireless systems along with emerging systems and standards. The gap
between current and emerging systems and the vision for future wireless applications indicates that much work
remains to be done to make this vision a reality.
The first wireless networks were developed in the Pre-industrial age. These systems transmitted information over
line-of-sight distances (later extended by telescopes) using smoke signals, torch signaling, flashing mirrors, signal
flares, or semaphore flags. An elaborate set of signal combinations was developed to convey complex messages
with these rudimentary signals. Observation stations were built on hilltops and along roads to relay these messages
over large distances. These early communication networks were replaced first by the telegraph network (invented
by Samuel Morse in 1838) and later by the telephone. In 1895, a few decades after the telephone was invented,
Marconi demonstrated the first radio transmission from the Isle of Wight to a tugboat 18 miles away, and radio
communications was born. Radio technology advanced rapidly to enable transmissions over larger distances with
better quality, less power, and smaller, cheaper devices, thereby enabling public and private radio communications,
television, and wireless networking.
Several reviews have been made regarding the methods and application
of multi-objective optimization (MOO). There are two methods of MOO that do not
require complicated mathematical equations, so the problem becomes simple.
These two methods are the Pareto and scalarization. In the Pareto method, there is
a dominated solution and a non-dominated solution obtained by a continuously
updated algorithm. Meanwhile, the scalarization method creates multi-objective
functions made into a single solution using weights. There are three types of
weights in scalarization which are equal weights, rank order centroid weights, and
rank-sum weights. Next, the solution using the Pareto method is a performance
indicators component that forms MOO a separate and produces a compromise
solution and can be displayed in the form of Pareto optimal front, while the solution
using the scalarization method is a performance indicators component that forms a
scalar function which is incorporated in the fitness function. Nyoman Gunantara, joined with Universitas
Udayana (Unud), Bali as lecturer since 2001. He
holds Bachelor degree in electrical engineering
from Universitas Brawijaya (UB), Master and
Doctor degrees in electrical engineering from
Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember (ITS). He
has 17 years of teaching and research experience. His research interests include wireless
communications, ad hoc network, quality network, and optimization. He is a member of the
IEEE.The optimal value or the best solution can be found through the optimization process. The
optimization problems include looking for maximum or minimum value or using one objective or
multi-objective. Problems that have more than one objective is referred to as multi-objective
optimization (MOO). This type of problem is found in everyday life, such as mathematics, engineering, social studies, economics, agriculture, aviation, automotive, and many others. Multi-objective evolutionary algorithm (MOEA) is a stochastic optimization technique. Similar to other optimization algorithms, MOEAs are used to find optimal Pareto
solutions for specific problems, but they differ from population-based approaches. The majority
of the existing MOEAs use the concept of domination in their actions, and some do not.
Therefore, here the focus is the MOEA class that is dominance based. The optimization mechanism of the MOEA is very similar to evolutionary algorithms, except for the use of dominance
relationship. In detail, at each iteration, the objective value is calculated for each individual and
then used to determine the relationship of dominance in the population in order to choose a
potentially better solution for the production of the hereditary population. This population may
be combined with parent populations to produce populations for the next generation.
Furthermore, the existence of objective space may give MOEA the flexibility to apply some
conventional support techniques such as niching. Several reviews on MOO applications in various aspects of life have been done. A review of some
of the MOO settlement methods shows that a complex method of solving and difficult mathematical equations are used. This paper will propose an MOO settlement method that does not require
complex mathematical equations in order to simplify the problem.


